* Title:

Polyhedral Compilation Off the Beaten Path

* Abstract:

The polyhedral model is a powerful framework for automatic
optimization and parallelization.  Programs are represented using
systems of affine (linear) inequalities, allowing to construct and
search for advanced loop optimizations.  This model is now mature and
reaches production compilers.

In this talk, we will survey ongoing work to extend the reach of the
polyhedral model. From dynamic, data-dependent control flow, to
task-level optimization of parallel programs, through hardware
accelerators and domain-specific languages.

* Bio:

Albert Cohen is a senior research scientist at INRIA and a part-time
associate professor at École Polytechnique, Paris, France. He
graduated from École Normale Supérieure de Lyon, and received his PhD
from the University of Versailles in 1999 (awarded two national
prizes). He has been a visiting scolar at the University of Illinois
in 2000 and 2001, and an invited professor at Philips Research then
NXP, Eindhoven.

Albert Cohen works on optimizing compilers for high-performance and
embedded systems, automatic parallelization, and parallel data-flow
and synchronous programming. He coauthored more than 80 papers in
refereed journals and international conferences, and he is or has been
the advisor for 16 PhD theses. He served in the program committees of
the major conferences in the field, and has been the general chair of
HiPEAC 2012.  Albert Cohen is particularly interested in research
projects resulting in the effective transfer of advanced compilation
techniques to production compilers.
